This directory contains a preliminary version of GRIMS, released 2012-06-07.

  The contents of this directory are Copyright (c) 2011-2012 by Radford M. Neal.
  
  Permission is granted for anyone to copy, use, modify, or distribute these
  programs and accompanying documents for any purpose, provided this copyright
  notice is retained and prominently displayed, along with a note saying 
  that the original programs are available from Radford Neal's web page, and 
  note is made of any changes made to these programs.  These programs and 
  documents are distributed without any warranty, express or implied.  As the
  programs were written for research purposes only, they have not been tested 
  to the degree that would be advisable in any important application.  All use
  of these programs is entirely at the user's own risk.

This software can be obtained from http://www.cs.utoronto.ca/~radford/GRIMS.html

---------------------------------------------------------------------

GRIMS - General R Interface for Markov Sampling - is an R package for
performing MCMC simulations.  Distributions to sample from are defined
using R functions, and Markov chain sampling methods are also defined
by R functions.  R functions for some distributions and sampling
methods are supplied with this package.

This preliminary version is not yet structured as a proper R package,
and has only a few example distributions and example sampling methods.
It may also have lots of bugs.  It is being released at this point
mainly for discussion.

Documentation for GRIMS is in several .txt files.  The starting point
is overview.txt.  The example distributions and update functions below
are documented in comments at the start of the .r files.

Distributions definitions provided as examples:

  Multivariate normal distributions - mvn.r

  Mixture of two multivariate normal distributions - mix.r

  Bayesian logistic regression model - logistic.r

    This definition omit some facilities that would be present in a
    final implementation of a logistic regression model.  (Some of these
    omissions are deliberate, to allow testing that the framework handles
    functions defining distribution which don't implement all features.)

MCMC update functions provided:

  Random-walk Metropolis updates with normal proposals - metropolis.r

  Gibbs sampling (currently for normal distributions only) - gibbs.r

  Basic Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) - basic_hmc.r and pupdate.r
  HMC with windows of state for acceptance/rejection - windowed_hmc.r
  HMC with bounds on the range of variables- bounded_hmc.r
  HMC with tempering - tempered_hmc.r

Test scripts for the sampling methods on these distributions are in
mvn-tests.r, bounded-tests.r, windowed-tests.r, tempered-tests.r, and
logistic-tests.r.  These may be "sourced" to run the tests (assuming
that the other .r files are in the current directory).  

The tempered-tests.r script also produces the plot seen in Figure 9
of my review of "MCMC Using Hamiltonian Dynamics", in the Handbook
of Markov Chain Monte Carlo.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Release history:

  2012-06-07:  Added bounded_hmc, windowed_hmc, and tempered_hmc update
               functions.  Added test scripts for these, and modified
               other test scripts.  Fixed some bugs, including some in 
               mcmc regarding bounds, and did other cleanups of code and 
               documentation.
  2011-08-26:  Fixed a bug in which mcmc returned a modified 'updates'
               list that then wouldn't work with more_mcmc.
  2011-08-10:  Varous mods and bug fixes (including for one bug with 
               rep>1 in metropolis, two bugs with lower and upper bound 
               attributes of lpr functions).
  2011-06-28:  Fixes bugs, adds Gibbs for normals, adds mvn tests.
  2011-06-25:  First release
